## Strategic marketing management

Strategic Marketing Management (SMM) is an important feature of modern Marketing, which is to manage enterprise's Marketing activities from a Strategic perspective.

## The basic meaning of "strategy" in SMM

The world marketing master Philip Kotler (2000) pointed out that the key role of marketing in the formulation of enterprise strategic planning has the following three aspects:

First, marketing provides guiding principles, suggesting that business strategies should be developed around meeting the needs of key customer groups. Second, marketing enables strategic planners to make investment decisions by helping to identify attractive market opportunities and to estimate the potential of companies to take advantage of them. Finally, within specific business units, marketing devises strategies to achieve unit objectives.

Among them, the first and second aspects are aimed at the enterprise level strategy, while the third aspect is aimed at the business level strategy. In addition, the marketing strategy can also be aimed at the marketing target of the marketing function itself. Thus it can be seen that the basic meaning of the word "strategy" before marketing management has three levels, namely, the role of marketing on enterprise strategy, business strategy and marketing objectives. Because the enterprise marketing has the "guiding" significance and "helping" function to the formation and implementation of the enterprise level strategy, the marketing management therefore has the "strategic" effect. That's the first level of meaning.

The second level of meaning of "strategic" in SMM refers to its "strategic" role in business strategy. Business strategy refers to the management strategy planning of a certain business in an enterprise, whose core is to solve the problem of "how to establish and strengthen the company's competitive position in the market". How does marketing help to this end? As we all know, the operation of a business is the collaboration of several corporate functions, such as: manufacturing and operations, marketing, research and development/technology, human resources/labor relations, financial strategy, etc. Any business strategy is a combination of these functions. However, in different business strategies, the importance of each function varies, with some being primary and some being secondary. The main function must be the main source of value in the enterprise value chain, which contributes the most to the business value. Generally speaking, in the case of constant technology level and business model of the whole industry, in the business strategy of a particular supply and demand state, which function is dominant and which function is secondary is unique, and it depends on the supply and demand structure. If an enterprise just adopts this functional strategy and builds an advantage in this functional field, it will stand out. For example, in the pharmaceutical industry, research and development is a key function. If a pharmaceutical company has established a strong research and development advantage, it will be able to win in the fierce competition. In recent years, the essence of mutual merger of pharmaceutical enterprises is to establish R&D advantages. However, due to the differences in technological innovation, management innovation, system innovation and government support, enterprises in the same industry are optional in the choice of functional strategy, which indicates that different kinds of enterprises in the same industry reflect this. The combination of uniqueness and selectivity of dominant positions constitutes the rise and fall of different firms and their business units throughout the industry.

In all enterprises' success, although marketing itself is one of the core elements of business strategy, it does not mean that all enterprises' business strategies take establishing marketing advantages as the strategic goal. When a business strategy uses other functions as a base to build a strategic position, marketing is in a subordinate position. It can be seen that whether marketing plays a strategic role is the choice of business strategy. When we talk about marketing strategy or strategic marketing management, the word "strategy" has two meanings. The business strategy of an enterprise aims at creating marketing advantages and establishing a strong competitive position in the marketing link, which is one of the meanings of the word "strategy" in SMM. The strong brand position of Coca Cola Company is a typical marketing advantage, and its brand and marketing advantages are also the dominant position in the soft drink industry. In the soft drink industry, high-tech business strategy cannot help enterprises establish competitive advantages. Porter points out that there are only three types of basic competitive strategies at the business level: low cost and low price strategy, differentiated strategy and centralized strategy. Marketing can be the target of all three strategies. Through the establishment of direct marketing system, Dell has established a low cost advantage in the distribution link of the computer industry, thus establishing a strong competitive position. The field of marketing offers greater options for differentiated strategies. Examples include branding, packaging, design, distribution, advertising, public relations, and so on. The French LV luggage company has established a strong competitive position in the high-end market of the luggage industry by establishing its unique design advantages.

The third meaning of strategy in SMM relates to the division of tasks that marketing plays as a secondary role in business strategy. However, no matter whether the marketing function plays the leading role in the business strategy or not, the requirements of the business strategy constitute the role responsibility of the marketing function, which is called the target of the marketing function by the author. The task of marketing is to achieve this goal. Marketing strategy is the means to accomplish this task and achieve the marketing mission. Koetler's strategic role in marketing refers to the role of marketing in corporate strategy and business strategy, and clearly points out that the latter is fundamental, "within each business unit, the role of marketing is to help achieve the overall strategic objectives." The overall strategic objective here should be the business strategic objective, that is, the action plan and business strategy model formulated by the management to achieve the success of the operation in a particular business area. Thomson also pointed out that "the primary role of functional strategy is to support the company's overall business strategy and competitive strategy". As for the role of "helping" to achieve the general goal of the strategy, when the goal of the business strategy is to establish marketing advantages, marketing strategy is the main component of the business strategy, it plays a major role in the functional mix; When the goal of the business strategy is to establish other functional advantages, although marketing is not the leading role of the business strategy, it still has to cooperate with other functions to play its due role in building the dominant position.

## SMM and Marketing Strategy

The so-called SMM refers to the enterprise process of marketing management which takes marketing strategy as the pivot and takes the formulation and implementation of marketing strategy as the core marketing management function. This shows the key role of marketing strategy in SMM. So what is the marketing strategy? What does it include?

Some research points out that marketing strategies adapt to three different types or three different levels of problems. The first level is the marketing strategy at the macro level, which is centered on the comprehensive use of marketing mix variables (price, product, advertisement, etc.). According to this definition, developing a strategy for a product involves pricing that product, designing an advertising campaign, and then deciding on distribution. The middle level marketing strategy refers to the marketing factor strategy, which refers to the choice of alternative methods used for a certain factor in the marketing mix, such as "push" versus "pull" promotion strategy, "intensive" versus "select" versus "exclusive" distribution strategy, or "skimming" versus "penetration" pricing strategy, etc. At the micro level is the product-market entry strategy, which refers to the strategy for a specific marketing decision. For example, a firm's strategy to build market share, gain profit (and share), or defend market share, etc.

There are also those who use the term marketing strategy in a broader sense. This view tends to emphasize two aspects: selecting a target market and selecting a marketing mix to serve that market. This kind of marketing strategy pays attention to the consumers, but ignores the competitors.

A widely used definition of marketing strategy from the strategic perspective of management sees marketing strategy as a four-step process: (1) defining the business scope of the operation, (2) defining the business purpose, (3) developing plans for marketing, production, and other functions, and (4) budgeting for these plans. In this sense, marketing strategy is closer to corporate strategy.

The author believes that marketing strategy includes three different levels of content: target market, market positioning and marketing mix. The target market defines the customer group for marketing. Obviously, if the wrong marketing target, all the marketing countermeasures can only be irrelevant, is bound to lose.

Market positioning is the choice of attack points and defensive points to attack the target market. Only with a firm market positioning can the target market be occupied. The marketing mix is a weapon to attack the target market and occupy the market position. The classic marketing mix includes product strategy, price strategy, distribution strategy and communication strategy. Its strategic nature lies in the choice of appropriate marketing means, play an unexpected effect, fight against competitors.

The three components of the marketing strategy should not be changed for any situation. The target market of one of the businesses should be relatively stable after being determined, so should the positioning. For example, Rolex watches have been taking successful men as its target market for many years, and the noble positioning has not changed. From the perspective of Rolex watch business, its marketing strategy is to firmly occupy the high-end market of watches. Rolex marketing one of the most prominent is its brand strategy, that is to say the watch to the marketing of many factors, including the selection of materials, design of the watch, packaging, distribution network and advertising and other marketing elements, rolex hold shape the brand, the marketing efforts around the famous brand to make system arrangement, so we say rolex is take the brand marketing strategy, or simply referred to as the famous brand strategy. From this point of view, people do have different levels when using marketing strategy. For a brand new enterprise, business and product, the focus of marketing strategy is the selection of the target market, then the marketing mix has become a tactic. Facing a marketing situation where the target market has been defined, the key point of marketing strategy is to find market positioning. When the target market and market positioning are clear, the focus of the marketing strategy to marketing mix, which determined the primary factor in the marketing elements, it is the new marketing strategy, such as brand strategy, the rapid development of new products and promotion strategy, intensive distribution and selection of distribution strategy, push and pull strategy, intensive advertising strategy and so on. After the establishment of the brand strategy, how to establish a brand strategy has become a more specific strategy. It can be seen that the marketing strategy has at least three levels: the macro level -- the selected target market and the established market positioning; the middle level -- the marketing mix strategy; and the micro level -- the main realization way of a certain marketing factor combination strategy.

Through the analysis of enterprise marketing path - strategy to diameter, some enterprises in the form of an official "marketing strategy" fixed ", but a lot of enterprises don't have such documents, or even the formation of a formal marketing strategy, some even later discovered the path of the marketing process has obvious traces. However, more and more enterprises begin to attach importance to the formal planning process, take step by step, in a planned way to form the marketing strategy, and write a complete marketing strategy plan, the springing of management consultancy and the development of MBA education have all played their part, because of the formation and write the strategic plan is a management consultant and mbas practice and obtain basic skills.

## SMM and management processes

SMM takes marketing strategy as its axis, and its core functions are the formation and implementation of marketing strategy. The formation of marketing strategy includes four steps: the determination of marketing mission and target, the selection of target market, the establishment of strategic position and the design of marketing mix. The implementation of marketing strategy includes the establishment of marketing organization, marketing staff incentive, marketing performance evaluation of three links. This is shown in the following table.

Step 1 | Step 2 | Step 3 | Step 4 | Step 5 | Step 6 | Step 7
------------ | -------------  | -------------  | ------------- | -------------  | -------------  | -------------
  Determine marketing objectives | Select the target market | Determine strategic position | Design the marketing mix | Allocate marketing resources | Build a marketing mix | Control the Marketing Process

Step 1,2,3,4 Form marketing strategy

Step 5,6 and 7 Implement marketing strategies

### The determination of marketing objectives

The basic mission of marketing granted by enterprises is to establish long-term and mutually beneficial exchange relations between enterprises and the public (individuals and organizations) they come into contact with. However, in different business strategies, marketing functions play different roles and tasks, which can be generally divided into two categories: the first category is to play a main role in helping business strategies to build competitive position in the marketing field and establish competitive advantages in marketing. The second is to play a supplementary role in helping the business strategy to build a competitive position in other functional areas. At this time, the task of the marketing function is to provide marketing concepts and market information to the business strategy and help other functions create value. Finally, the customer value mainly created by other functional areas is presented to the customers. No matter what kind, SMM and marketing strategy have the name of "strategy", is to take the goal of business strategy -- to establish competitive advantage as their goal. This goal of marketing is called the strategic goal. The objectives of marketing strategy include creating marketing differentiation and low cost marketing advantage and establishing low cost aggregation advantage in a particular market.

### Target market selection

Marketing has three attitudes towards the customers it serves: mass marketing, product diversity marketing, and target marketing. Mass marketing is the mass production, mass distribution and mass promotion of a product by the seller to all buyers. Product diversification marketing means that the seller produces two or more products with different characteristics, styles, qualities, models and so on. Target marketing means that the seller first finds the market segments, chooses one or several of them, and then develops marketable products for each market segment and formulates the corresponding marketing mix. Now are used more and more enterprises target market marketing strategy, the "better able to help sellers find marketing opportunities", and "quickly and effectively into the target market", "focus on the larger interest of customers (" rifle" method), rather than having to spread their marketing effort (' three guns' method) ".

The use of target marketing strategy is one of the core features of SMM. It can be said that SMM is the marketing management around the occupation of the target market. Therefore, the selection of the target market becomes the premise of the completion of the marketing target. Market segmentation technology is to serve the selection of target market, because to select the target market, we must first create alternative market segments through market segmentation.

### Establishment of strategic market position

The target market is like a target, and the market positioning is like the target's bullseye, hit it is full mark. This bullseye exists in the mind of the target market -- the target customer group. Market positioning is the arrangement that makes the product occupy a clear, special and ideal position in the mind of the target consumer relative to the competitive products. As a result, marketers must be positioned to differentiate their products from competing brands and achieve the greatest strategic advantage in the target market.

### Design the marketing mix

A strategic location in a market means where the value is particularly valued by customers. Therefore enterprises should around this location to create customer value, the function of marketing strategy is to summarize the all corporate functions, together create the customer value, in addition, because the marketing is responsible for departments to communicate directly with customers, so it will also responsible for the market positioning of the superior value to customers. If marketing can deliver value at a lower cost than competitors, or can increase the added value, then the marketing process itself becomes a business strategy. So all the elements of the marketing mix need to serve and add value to the established strategic market location.

### Budget and allocation of marketing resources

The formation of marketing strategy if the lack of implementation, then it can only be a piece of paper, if the implementation of ineffective, will also get half the result with twice the effort. The implementation of marketing strategy includes the budget and allocation of marketing resources, the establishment of marketing organization and the control of marketing process. The allocation of marketing resources is realized through the budget of financial resources between production, marketing and marketing functions, which is the material basis of the implementation of marketing strategy.

### Establishment of marketing organization

The establishment of a marketing organization is actually the allocation of marketing human resources, including the size, quality and organizational structure of the marketing team, as well as the incentive measures and leadership arrangements for marketing personnel.

### Control of the marketing process

In order to adjust the strategy or the resource allocation, organizational mode and personnel allocation in the implementation of the strategy when necessary, SMM relies on the close monitoring of the marketing process, continuous evaluation of the form, audit of the marketing process, and comprehensive internal and external marketing information to judge whether the marketing has achieved the expected purpose.

Basic features of SMM

The development of traditional marketing revolves around the various components of marketing -- product, distribution, price and promotion. These four are the well-known elements of marketing mix -- 4Ps. Strategic marketing includes these strategic variables, but in some important strategic aspects beyond the scope of traditional marketing. Strategic marketing follows a market-oriented strategic development process that takes into account the ever-changing business environment and the constant delivery of customer satisfaction.

Strategy is the operation and management action plan formulated by the management to achieve the organizational goals. It is reflected in the actions and mode of action designed by the management to achieve the expected results (PAT tern). It is concerned about how the organization accomplishes its mission and achieves the expected goals. The concept of strategic management includes five aspects:

* A strategy is a plan, which points out the direction of an organization from the present to the future and guides the course of action.

* Strategy is also a pattern of actions, which emphasizes the relative stability of actions that do not change over time. For example, some enterprises adopt famous brand strategy, choose the high-end market, and some enterprises tend to high-risk strategy.

* Strategy is a position that occupies a certain vantage point on the battlefield to win customers. For example, a company develops a strong product to conquer a market.

* Strategy is a kind of perspective, which seeks out feasible approaches between the future development prospects of an enterprise and its existing business fields.

* A strategy is a strategy or maneuver (ploy) designed to defeat a competitor.

Each aspect of the above strategic concept begins with P in English, so it is called the 5Ps strategic concept. Strategic marketing is a kind of thinking and practice about marketing. The disadvantages of tactical marketing are: single goal, simple means, random action, short-term results, ignoring the competition; SMM has the characteristics of long-term goal, comprehensive means, planned action, far-reaching results and competition-oriented. Specifically, strategic marketing has the following characteristics:

1. Be market-driven. Strategic marketing holds that competitive advantage comes from customers, which is based on both the degree of customer satisfaction achieved by the firm and the degree to which the firm surpasses the level of customer satisfaction of its competitors. Marketing strategy combines customer-influenced business strategies with integrated market-based activities to build competitive advantage. Strategic marketing includes operational actions aimed at providing customer satisfaction. Strategy formulation should consider business scope, basic alternatives, competitive advantage, and organizational effectiveness. In the operation function, it is necessary to coordinate the selection of customers and reasonably arrange the operation variables affected by the market. Strategic marketing emphasizes the link between the organization and the environment, and regards marketing as an overall responsibility of the business, rather than just a specialized function. Achieving competitive advantage requires collective action and integration of functions.

2. Focus on the complexity and variability of the environment. The increasingly complex and varied business environment has led to the prosperity of strategic marketing with monitoring of the market and competitors. External factors change the composition and attractiveness of markets and competitive structures. Marketing is central to the strategic planning process because it is at the margins of an organization with its customers, channel members, and competition. Strategic marketing provides expertise that helps monitor the environment, determine product specifications, and determine competitors.

3. Take customer satisfaction as the strategic mission. Strategic marketing thinking holds that the key to customer satisfaction is to link customer needs with an organization's service planning process. Customer preferences for certain product attributes must be translated into product design and production guidelines. The success of obtaining high quality products and services mainly depends on finding out what aspects of products and services are conducive to promoting customer satisfaction. Marketing professionals must have the necessary experience and skills to analyze customer satisfaction.

4. Marketing activities should focus on the establishment and play of competitive advantages.

5. Be future-oriented and focus on long-term goals such as market share, customer satisfaction, or customer loyalty.

SMM is a new stage in the development of marketing thinking. It realizes that the concept of consumer-oriented marketing ignores the defects of competition and emphasizes the balance between consumers and competitors.

Because the modern enterprise is more and more pay attention to the exchange with customers to establish long-term mutually beneficial relations, at the same time, due to the economic globalization degree deepening of market competition intensifying, the formation of a buyer's market, the marketing manager has not usual simply pay attention to daily operation, but must use the thinking and tools of strategic management marketing campaign command, to act. "The shift of marketing managers from implementers to organisational strategy makers has contributed to the formation of strategic marketing management as a course of study and practice". Today, because of its "strategic" characteristics, SMM has become the mainstream paradigm of marketing management and has been more and more widely used.


## Reference

Strategic Marketing Management https://wiki.mbalib.com/wiki/Strategic_marketing_management